Features

Fast. Simple. Seamless.

Features
========

Multiple language support

SAGE is a multi-agent framework written in C++. It is both language and
operating system agnostic. The SAGE control interface supports a wide
range of programming languages including: C++, Java, and Python.

![](_images/features_1.png)

![](_images/features_2.png)

Dynamic agent configuration

Dynamically construct and deconstruct agents to introduce a greater
level of system control. SAGE agents can create and populate other
agents with behaviors based on current operational needs. These smart
agents may evolve with the system under test and enable reasoning in
changing contexts, flexible configurations, and increased agent
awareness.

Testing distributed systems with SAGE

SAGE provides a powerful framework for automated testing of distrubuted
systems, such as SOA systems-of-systems. SAGE is not inherently a test
automation technology. However, the ability to coordinate and synchonize
agent activities across a distributed system under test has been used to
create a test automation capability that integrates a hetrogenious set
of automation technologies into a coherent test automation harness. The
SAGE framework supports integration with [Robot
Framework](http://robotframework.org/#introduction), a widely used and
extensible test specification and automation technology. SAGE extends
Robot Framework's capabilities to include support for building and
configuring SAGE agent networks for test automation. This enables
detailed test specification in Robot Framework that includes a
specification of the agent network needed for an automated test. Test
activies carried out by distributed agents are reported to the SAGE
server providing a centralized reporting capability. These test results
are used by Robot Framework to create a single report outlining test
results across the distributed system.

![](_images/features_3.png)

![](_images/features_4.png)

Modular by design

SAGE Framework permits easy language agnostic extensibility and
enhancement to support the introduction of new systems and ad hoc test
tools. Seamlessly combine, otherwise disconnected, third-party tools and
libraries to easily extend functionality.

Persistent network capability

Store network state to facilitate the automation of large scale systems.
Speed up automation processes by loading SAGE node, agent, and behavior
configurations to quickly restore previously saved network states.

![](_images/features_5.png)

["Robot Framework"](http://robotframework.org/#introduction) by Robot
Framework Foundation is licensed under the [Apache License
2.0](http://apache.org/license/LICENSE-2.0)
